# nearest-hurricane

# Introduction
The aim of this program is to report which tropical cyclone storm system or hurricane had its center pass closest to a location specified by the user. Tropical cyclones are defined as including all types of tropical cyclone storms such as tropical depressions, tropical storms, and hurricanes. Hurricanes are defined as hurricanes according to the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane Wind Scale with category 1 hurricanes and higher being counted as hurricanes. The tropical cyclone must be a hurricane at its nearest point to the specified location for it to count as a hurricane if the user selects that they would only like to return hurricane related data. 
The program only works for locations within the North Atlantic Hurricane Basin. The North Atlantic Hurricane Basin is defined by the program as falling from 0 degrees N (the Equator) in the south to 60 degrees N in the north and 98 degrees W (-98 degrees) in the West to 0 degrees longitude (the prime Meridian) in the East. 
# Getting The Code to Run Successfully
To successfully run the code I’ve written, you will need to have installed some libraries that do not come preloaded into the CS50 code environment. These include the tropical, shapely, and cartopy libraries. To be able to convert addresses entered by the user into longitude and latitude coordinates, you will also need to install the geopy library. 
# Code Overview
location_info Function 
To accomplish the end goal of reporting either the closest tropical cyclone or hurricane to the location specified by the user, the program first runs the location_info function. The goal of the location_info function is to briefly introduce the program to the user before prompting the user for the location that they’re interested in. 
The user enters their location in the form of either an address or more general city name. The code then either converts or attempts to convert the location the user entered into latitude and longitude coordinates. I then use an exception to the UnboundLocalError to prevent the user having entered a non location that could not be converted into latitude or longitude points from breaking the code. If it proved possible to convert the location entered into geographic coordinates, I assign those coordinates to latitude and longitude points. I then call the error_handeling function to handle other possible errors that make the geographic points unusable (see the relevant section). Once the errors are handled, I convert the latitude and longitude into a list because I will refer to the two coordinates next to each other in the same order throughout most if not all of the rest of the program. Therefore, the list is easier to call than writing out the two values separately. 
error_handeling Function
The error_handeling function takes care of any error handling not already done in the location_info function. Specifically, the error_handeling function ensures that the location the user specifies is within the North Atlantic Hurricane Basin based on the latitude and longitude coordinates that location corresponds to. 
The error_handeling function also calls the get_google_maps_url function which prints out a Google Maps url so that the user can then confirm that the coordinates found are the ones that they intended to enter. 
The error_handeling function eventually returns a boolean confirming whether the location is either within the North Atlantic Hurricane Basin or the user’s intended location. False corresponds to the location specified not fitting one or both of these criteria. 
get_google_maps_url Function
The get_google_maps_url function uses the fact that google maps urls have a format where you can enter the latitude and longitude into the URL and it will pull up that location on Google Maps. This is useful for the user being able to view and confirm that the location found is the one they intended to search for. 
gatherData Function
The gatherData function first calls the userPreferences function to set the values of variables that will be used to determine whether the user would like to return the nearest tropical cyclone or hurricane and whether they would like a plot of the storm’s track to be returned in a file. It then uses those preferences to find the tropical cyclones or hurricanes within 100 km of the user’s locations. The data is initially returned as a dictionary in order of storm intensity before being reordered to instead sort by the storms the nearest to the specified location so that those closest to the specified location occur first in the new dictionary. 
The next portion of the code is only run if at least one storm was found to have passed within 100 km of the specified location to avoid errors that would stop the code from running. Because the dictionary generated previously only contains storm ids, I now call on the info of the closest storm and get the storm’s name as the user is likely more interested in the name of a storm than the ID number used by meteorologists. If the user specified they wanted a plot of the storm, that is generated at this point of the code. 
userPreferences Function
This function enables the user to specify their preferences regarding whether they are only interested in the nearest hurricane to pass by their location or if they’re interested in all tropical cyclones and it also enables them to decide whether they would like to see a track of the storm generated in a file. 
print_data_for_user Function
The print_data_for_user function prints out the information about the hurricane or tropical cyclone the user was interested in. If the user asked for a file to be generated containing a track of the hurricane or cyclone that passed nearest to their location, the function will also print out the file name. 
